README.md, before:

BOSH Release for haproxy
===========================

Questions? Pop in our [slack channel](https://cloudfoundry.slack.com/messages/haproxy-boshrelease/)!

This BOSH release is an attempt to get a more customizable/secure haproxy release than what
is provided in [cf-release](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-release). It allows users to
blacklist internal-only domains, preventing potential Host header spoofing from allowing
unauthorized access of internal APIs. It also allows for better control over haproxy's
timeouts, for greater resiliency under heavy load.

Usage
-----

To deploy this BOSH release:

```
git clone https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/haproxy-boshrelease.git
cd haproxy-boshrelease

export BOSH_ENVIRONMENT=<alias>
export BOSH_DEPLOYMENT=haproxy
bosh2 deploy manifests/haproxy.yml \
  -v haproxy-backend-port=80 \
  -v "haproxy-backend-servers=[10.10.10.10,10.10.10.11]"
```

To make alterations to the deployment you can use the `bosh2 deploy [-o operator-file.yml]` flag to provide [operations files](https://bosh.io/docs/cli-ops-files.html).

Alternately you can build a manifest using `templates/make_manifest`

You can either use the templates + examples provided to merge this in with an existing CloudFoundry
deployment, or create a new deployment using this command:

```
make_manifest <aws-ec2|warden> <comma-separated-list-of-router-servers> <additional_templates>
```

**NOTE**: `make_manifest` requires [spruce v1.8.9](https://github.com/geofffranks/spruce) or newer.

```
# Example for bare bones bosh-lite haproxy release on warden
templates/make_manifest warden 10.244.0.22
bosh deploy

# Example for using keepalive with haproxy on warden:
KEEPALIVED_VIP=10.244.50.2 templates/make_manifest warden 10.244.0.22
```

### Development

Feel free to contribute back to this via a pull request on a feature branch! Once merged, we'll
cut a new final release for you.

### Config Tests

If you add a spec value, please add a corresponding test to `spec/haproxy_templates_spec.rb`.

To run these tests:
```
cd haproxy_boshrelease
bundle install
bundle exec rspec spec/haproxy_templates_spec.rb
```

Commit message:

Replace unit tests with new suite of unit tests with better coverage

README.md, after:

BOSH Release for haproxy
===========================

Questions? Pop in our [slack channel](https://cloudfoundry.slack.com/messages/haproxy-boshrelease/)!

This BOSH release is an attempt to get a more customizable/secure haproxy release than what
is provided in [cf-release](https://github.com/cloudfoundry/cf-release). It allows users to
blacklist internal-only domains, preventing potential Host header spoofing from allowing
unauthorized access of internal APIs. It also allows for better control over haproxy's
timeouts, for greater resiliency under heavy load.

Usage
-----

To deploy this BOSH release:

```
git clone https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/haproxy-boshrelease.git
cd haproxy-boshrelease

export BOSH_ENVIRONMENT=<alias>
export BOSH_DEPLOYMENT=haproxy
bosh2 deploy manifests/haproxy.yml \
  -v haproxy-backend-port=80 \
  -v "haproxy-backend-servers=[10.10.10.10,10.10.10.11]"
```

To make alterations to the deployment you can use the `bosh2 deploy [-o operator-file.yml]` flag to provide [operations files](https://bosh.io/docs/cli-ops-files.html).

Alternately you can build a manifest using `templates/make_manifest`

You can either use the templates + examples provided to merge this in with an existing CloudFoundry
deployment, or create a new deployment using this command:

```
make_manifest <aws-ec2|warden> <comma-separated-list-of-router-servers> <additional_templates>
```

**NOTE**: `make_manifest` requires [spruce v1.8.9](https://github.com/geofffranks/spruce) or newer.

```
# Example for bare bones bosh-lite haproxy release on warden
templates/make_manifest warden 10.244.0.22
bosh deploy

# Example for using keepalive with haproxy on warden:
KEEPALIVED_VIP=10.244.50.2 templates/make_manifest warden 10.244.0.22
```

### Development

Feel free to contribute back to this via a pull request on a feature branch! Once merged, we'll
cut a new final release for you.

### Unit Tests and Linting

If you change any erb logic in the jobs directory please add a corresponding test to `spec`.

To run these tests:
```
cd haproxy_boshrelease
bundle install
bundle exec rake spec
```

To run lint with rubocop
```
cd haproxy_boshrelease
bundle install
bundle exec rake lint
```

To watch the tests while developing
```
cd haproxy_boshrelease
bundle install
bundle exec guard
```
